---
Date: Monday 04-10-2023 | 20:26:24
Updated at: Monday 04-10-2023 | 20:26:26
---

# Question 1
## Part a
We are given that we've n students, m of them will be sent and we can use their data such as student id and 301 grade. Given that, we could perform the following steps:
1. Use some sort of data structure that allows us to store pairs. For example we can store student id and his score in it. A Map or Tuple can do the trick 

2. To see the most succesful students first, we can sort this data structure in descending order. We can perform this operation based on the numeric grade of students, we can also use letter grades but using numeric grade gives us better accuracy. At this point the sorting algorithm needs to be efficient so that it uses less time and resources. We've seen QuickSort and MergeSort to efficiently sort array-like data structures so we can use one of them. For their time complexity, it is a wise move to consider their average time complexity. It's Ο(nlogn) for QuickSort and MergeSort. Now, we need to pick m students from our sorted data structure.

3. We already have students in sorted order, so picking m of them will take linear time which is Ο(n) time. Here we need to consider a case, and it is which when students have the same grade. For example 5 students may have scored 100. To make this fair, we can shuffle these students with a shuffling algorithm with linear time as its worst. After doing it, we're done!

The total running time of this algorithm will be Ο(nlogn) because it has higher rate of increase compared to linear time Ο(n).

## Part b
In order to give an upper bound for our algorithm, we need to have a look at the algorithms we used. 
- Assume we're creating a map-like data structure, which will take Ο(n) time.
- We used a sorting algorithm to sort these in descending order. Say we used QuickSort. It will take Assume we're creating a map-like data structure, which will take Ο(nlogn) time. 
- For selecting m students, we iterated through the map for n elements, which will take Ο(m) time. Say we bumped into successfull students with the same numeric grade, we need to shuffle them and perform no other operation on it. Since the number of successful students with the same grade is linear, the shuffling operation should take Ο(m) time as well.
- After shuffling them, we will simply select m students from it. It will take linear time because we are only selecting members of a sorted map. It will take Ο(m) worst (selection may include all of them).

As a result, the algorithm will take Ο(n) + Ο(nlogn) + Ο(m) + Ο(n) + Ο(m). Result's dominating complexity will be Ο(nlogn), and it is the tightest upper bound we can give.

# Question 2
Here, our goal is to find out the minimum number of different messages we need to write so that no two of the friends who know each other will get the same message. (People that know each other will get different messages, people that don't can receive the same message, because it doesn't matter.) If two people know each other, then these two are following each other on social media, and see the message one of them posts. Decision problem is a problem that requires if a given input satisfies a predetermined property or condition. The answer to this question should be a yes or no. `So depending on this information:`
- Given your set of friends, F = {f₁, f₂, ..., fₙ }, is it possible to write x or fewer messages to your friends, so that no two of your friends that know each other in F don't receive the same message?

# Question 3
## Part a
When we insert a new node into a Red-Black tree, we insert it as a red node and this may create red-red conflicts. We need to maintain the properties of Red-Black tree when we insert a new node. We've seen in the course that the maximum number of times we need to perform to fix the violation is 2 rotations, and it does not depend on the size of the tree, so yes the complexity is Ο(1). True.
## Part b
To fix the red-red conflits, we sometimes change the color of the current node's parent nodes. If the uncle of the new node is of the same color of the newly inserted node, which is red, then we change the colors of the parents of this newly inserted node. In the worst case we may need to change the colors of all the parents in the Red-Black Tree. The tree is of Ο(logn) height, and we may need to change the colors of the nodes at each level, which means we could possibly perofmr Ο(logn) recoloring node recolorings.
## Part c
We have seen the pseudocode for this operation in the class. The pre-order traversal visit each node exactly once, and this operation is done until we cannot visit any other node. In pre-order traversal, we visit root first, left subtree second and right subtree third. If  a tree has n nodes in it, then we will visit all n nodes of it. Saying Θ(nlogn) means we only need to visit the amount of nodes equal to the height of the tree but this is false because in that case we will have n - Θ(nlogn) univisited nodes. So this statement is False. We need to visit all n nodes in order to perform pre-order traversal in a Red-Black Tree and the complexity would be linear, which is Θ(n) time.
# Question 4
## Part a
NP stands for Non-Deterministic Polynomial time. It is a set and if we are able to find a solution to one of these problems, then we can check if the solution is correct in polynomial time, using a deterministic algorithm. NP means no particular rule is followed to make the guess.
## Part b
A problem is in NP if its solution can be checked and verified in polynomial time.